As an important part of natural environment, climate is associated with almost every aspect of our life. According to the IPCC’s 4th assessment report [4], global mean air temperature greatly increased after the 1950s, which was most likely because of the rapid increase in the discharge of the greenhouse gases generated in human activities. A series of environmental degradation events caused by climate change have taken place, for example, ocean level rises, extreme weather events occur more frequently, and ecological balance is under threat. Climate changes have received much attention recently, and related studies are conducted worldwide, mostly by international collaborative efforts, Although climate studies are inherently multi-disciplinary and different domain experts have different views, obtaining continuous, long-term and large-area observation data on land surface is the prerequisite for all studies [52]. Climate data containing multiple parameters, such as air temperature, rainfall, sunshine duration, wind velocity/direction, are usually generated by meteorological stations located in representative regions at regular time intervals, thus the data intrinsically are multidimensional, time-oriented and georelated. As the advance of observation techniques, a surface observation network consisting of thousands of stations has been established by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the Global Climate Observation System (GCOS) for climate studies. ‘Though the techniques used in climate change studies, such as differential equations, could well capture the evolutionary processes of spatiotemporal phenomena, they are costly and have other well- known limitations [10]. For example, most of these techniques attach ‘great importance to the analysis models, while lacking interactive processes and the capability of intuitively analyzing big ‘meteorological data. Individual changes hidden in such statisties- oriented processes are often ignored, when analyzing the overall changes. Furthermore, because a large number of climate problems have no reliable “ground truth” data, itis crucial to develop objective evaluation methods for comparing the outcomes of different analysis techniques. We thus resort to visualization techniques, and attempt to design a visualization framework that can intuitively and interactively reveal the evolutionary nature of climate change patterns at different spatiotemporal scales. We aim at addressing the following requirements [3]. First, climate represents the long-term average meteorological status in given regions, to evaluate climate changes, statistical analyses based on decades or longer observation data are necessary. Second, climate is inherently associated with geo- information, so the visualization granularities between temporal and spatial dimensions must be balanced and easily tuned. Finally, apart from macro and global climate change phenomena, users, such as climate researchers and policy makers, may also be interested in local and micro (e.¢. abnormal) conditions.
Our goal is to identify climate change pattems through visual analysis based on in-site climate observation station data which are also essential for traditional quantitative methods. The proposed visualization framework for climate changes, which we will call Vismate, contains three visualization modules, ie. Global Radial Map, Time Series Discs and Anomalies Detection Scatterplot. To evaluate our approach, we used Vismate to analyze China Surface Data for Intemational Exchange and Global Historical Climate Network (GHCN) [25] data, as shown in Fig. 1 and Fig. 12 respectively. By consulting domain experts and checking against the related literature, all the patterns discovered in our case studies have been confirmed, thus proving the effectiveness and the scalability of our approach. ‘The major contributions of this paper include: + Visimate, a visual analytical framework for discovering climate change patterns at different spatiotemporal scales. + Three complementary visualization techniques for spatial and temporal patterns in a single view, time-series patterns, and anomaly detection. + Discovery of several temperature patterns of China and the world relating to the climate changes. ‘The remaining part of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews related work. The approach overview is then described in Section 3, followed by three complementary visualization techniques in Section 4, 5, and 6 respectively. Section 7 describes two analytical case studies and an expert review. Finally, we conclude the paper in Section 8.

Discos de series temporales - múltiples HeatMaps triangulares de series temporales alrededor de un punto central formando un disco, como en la Fig. 1b. Cada HeatMap triangular codifica la tasa de cambio entre cada par de años de una estación durante un intervalo de tiempo predefinido. La alineación de los triángulos como un disco tiene como objetivo ayudar a los expertos en clima a comparar las tendencias temporales e identificar patrones temporales importantes entre diferentes estaciones. 

e la proyección del mapa y cómo la proyección de Mercator se utiliza para ajustar el mapamundi en un círculo, a pesar de algunas limitaciones en las regiones extremas de latitud.

4.2 Spatial Mapping Mapping each station with longitude, latitude and elevation 3D coordinate to a 1D angular coordinate system creates extra space that could be used to represent time and clustering information. One of the challenges in spatiotemporal mapping is to minimize the loss of spatial information when computing the angular coordinate for each station. The fact that not all the stations are on the contours of any country makes the coordinate transformation more difficult. To avoid that two geographically distant stations are arranged near cach other on the ring, we use a hierarchical mapping strategy, ie. first divide a map into Several subareas and assign an angular span to cach subarea in proportion to the number of the stations in that area, and then project the stations in each area onto the ring according to a reference. We use the latitude coordinate of a station as the reference (see Fig. 4b), because climate change is sensitive to the latitude Having obtained the angular coordinate of the first station in one area, ‘hich is equal to the area’s starting angle, the angular coordinates of other stations in that area can be determined by simply adding an equal angular interval to the angular coordinate of the previous station to simplify the drawing algorithm and to maintain the symmetry of the visualization, as in Fig. 4a ‘Assume P be the set of stations, L be the set of hierarchical levels, and A, be the set of subareas at the ith level. The algorithm of computing the origin,, and span,, representing the starting angle and the angular span of the jth area in the ith level as follows:

cada estación con coordenadas 3D de longitud, latitud y elevación a un sistema de coordenadas angulares 1D crea un espacio extra que podría utilizarse para representar el tiempo y la información de agrupación. 

. Para evitar que dos estaciones geográficamente distantes estén ubicadas cerca una de otra en el anillo, se utiliza una estrategia de mapeo jerárquico

el "Mapa Radial Global" como una representación gráfica en forma de anillos por sectores que muestra los datos de observación brutos, brindando una visualización de la condición meteorológica básica de cada estación.
Cada sector representa la serie temporal de una estación, y dentro de cada sector, una casilla radial se colorea para representar el valor específico de un atributo en un punto temporal determinado.

Cada uno de estos anillos representa un conglomerado de estaciones. Se utiliza una codificación de colores cálidos y fríos para representar las tasas de cambio medias positivas y negativas del clúster

El grosor de cada anillo representa el valor absoluto de la pendiente media de la línea de regresión lineal entre el tiempo y un atributo meteorológico específico. Esto significa que el grosor del anillo indica la intensidad del cambio climático en las estaciones del conglomerado.


objetivos 
con respecto al crimen
analizar y proponen con factores externos